# 7.5.2 Time Complexity Analysis

Since we are implementing our Dijkstra's algorithm with an adjacency matrix, the time complexity doesn't change with the configuration or density of the graph.&#x20;

Regardless of the graph's shape, the algorithm performs the same operations:&#x20;

1. Initializing the `distances`, `parents`, and `visited` arrays - O(V)
2. The main loop, which is run V times (once for each vertex) - O(V)
3. Within the main loop, it's calling `findNextNode` method which runs in O(V) time. It checks all the vertices to find the unvisited node with the minimum distance.
4. Also within the main loop, it checks all neighbors of the current node - O(V)

This gives us a time complexity of O(V^2) in all cases (best, average, and worst).

Here's why:

* **Best Case:** This can occur when there is a direct edge from the source node to the destination node. However, the algorithm does not know this in advance and will still perform all the operations for each vertex in the graph. Thus, the best-case time complexity is still O(V^2).
* **Average Case:** The average case scenario would also be O(V^2), since we're not given any specific probability distribution for the graphs, and the algorithm will still need to process all nodes.
* **Worst Case:** This happens when the graph is a complete graph or in the case where the edge with the shortest distance from the source node leads to the destination node last. Even in such cases, the algorithm performs the operations for each vertex in the graph, giving a worst-case time complexity of O(V^2).

One thing to note is that the algorithm can actually be improved using `PriorityQueue`. It's time complexity can be improved to O((V+E)logV) with it by keeping track of the minimum distance node. An optimized version of this algorithm sing using a min-priority queue or a Fibonacci heap can offer better performance for dense graphs.

However, we are not implementing such sophisticated data structure in our program as the field we are covering is primitive and the graphs we are using are rather sparse, which doesn't really work with Priority Queue.
