### 5.1 Overview

The optimized delivery route algorithm consists of two main parts: determining the delivery prioritization of food orders and finding the best travelling route based on these orders. Delivery prioritization is carried out considering distance and food item priority. The second part involves implementing the Dijkstra algorithm to find the best route based on the determined delivery prioritization. 

The scenario is assumed to be a graph problem. The nodes of graph represent starting point and deliveries destinations; the edges between nodes represent the travelling paths between 2 places. If an edge connects between starting point and delivery destination, this edge is labelled with food order’s weight value that is calculated using a specific weight formula which takes account of both distance and food quality factors. Else, if an edge connects two destinations, then the weight is just the distance of the path between these destinations. The weight value is crucial for determining the delivery prioritization, and what are the most efficient travelling paths for completing all food orders. It’s worth noting that that is no guarantee that there is a direct path between starting point and a destination. If there is such a case, the shortest distance between them will be used for calculating the weight value. Below summarizes the important points for representing the scenario in graph form:

1. Node represents the starting point and delivery destinations.
2. Edge represents the travelling path.
3. If there’s a connected path (edge) between starting point and destination, the distance of path is used to calculate food order’s weight value. Label the edge with this weight value.
4. If there’s a connected path between destinations, label this edge with the distance of path.
5. Else if there’s no direct path between the starting point and destination, the distance used for calculating weight value is the distance on map.

The Dijkstra algorithm is used to determine the best route starting from food order destination with lowest weight value and continuing to subsequent destinations while ensuring optimal efficiency and customer satisfaction. 
